# ILE

## Ne-1

ILEs have a natural ability to comprehend the essence of the ideas, theories and phenomena that interest them. In their limitless curiosity, they frequently investigate and discover a wide range of perspectives and viewpoints to conceptualize their understanding of a topic. They are very interested in generating mental abstractions, theories and concepts that are intended describe something more fundamental about our world. ILEs are energized by the process of searching for anything new and interesting, remaining optimistic that the discovered insight could be used to improve reality in some way, even if it seems unworkable in its current state. The creativity of this type is not so much directed towards realizing specific solutions to real-world problems and optimizing the quality of work performed, as they are conveying an abstracted understanding of the world and generating insight as a result \(which in effect, causes their audience to come up with unique ideas themselves\). For this reason, ILEs are not afraid to experiment with the unconventional, sometimes leading them to put forward new and unusual perspectives on a topic purely for the sake of it. At the same time, when the ILE has exhausted the potential of an idea, they will switch to the next interesting idea, occasionally interrupting whatever progress they had made on the previous one.

## Ti-2

The process by which ILEs formulate and categorize information into a logical structure is fairly quick, with them making sense of the knowledge that they've acquired with relative ease. ILEs commonly use logic as a tool to analyze a theories from multiple angles, determining what is central to that theory while reducing the parts that are extraneous information. They also tend to thrive in settings of open discussion and debate, utilizing prepositions, predicates, dialectics and analogies to advance their understanding of these subjects. ILEs constantly learn about what anything and everything related to what currently interests them, with any new information included into their understanding, resulting in them accumulating a wide range of different facts and discovering previously unseen connections between seemingly unrelated topics. While ILEs can be focused and diligent learners, they also tend to be scattered and unfocused in their proliferation of knowledge. They can spontaneously start talking about one thing and instantly jump to the next with little linearity or consistency, connecting together unrelated insights based on their interest in the moment. 

## Se-3

When placed in a situation where they are under pressure to take action, ILEs can grudgingly take charge in a position of leadership to resolve a situation. They are aware of the need to be assertive and confrontational when necessary, yet this will almost never be their first choice. The ILE's preference is to search for alternative options of dealing with a problem that does not involve putting pressure on people. In the presence of a more competitive environment where people are actively focused on accomplishing their goals, ILEs are disinterested in having to acclimate themselves to the fixed standards of competition as to avoid putting themselves under persistent stress. ILEs would much rather seek a more laid-back, soothing haven as a place to retreat to, for the purpose of regaining composure when things get too tough.

## Fi-4

Interpreting the personal attitudes, sentiments and feelings of others is an area in which the ILE has difficulty evaluating and is relatively oblivious to. Often, this obliviousness manifests as ILEs not having a clue what level of closeness other people occupy in relation to them. ILEs are fundamentally nonjudgmental people to a fault, finding the degree of personal bias when forming harsh moral imperatives to be ineffective when alternative explanations for a person's behavior exist. ILE experience great difficulty with establishing and maintaining close relationships with people over time. They can reach out to acquaintances and unintentionally overstep their personal boundaries, failing to understand how close they are to the person. The inverse problem can also take place among close friends, spending time with anyone who seems to be the most interesting or engaging to them in the moment. ILEs rely on the reactions of others to gauge the appropriateness of their behavior and rarely introspect \(or rather, anticipate\) how other people might feeling internally. If the person is not emotionally open with them and they could not get a positive response out of them, the ILE will not understand what the problem is and simply move on to the next person that captures their interest.

## Si-5

Frequently, ILEs can get so caught up in their hobbies, work and activities that they recurrently neglect their physical needs. This quality of absent-mindedness can cause the ILE to underestimate the impact the physical environment has on their internal needs. Similarly, they can also get so invested in the intellectual development of their ideas that they lose sight of the specific details pertinent to their daily routine. ILEs find it disorienting when having to determine what would make them feel comfortable themselves, though when a pleasurable source of comfort is found, the ILE happily indulges in this activity to calm their active mind.

## Fe-6

ILEs greatly appreciate atmospheres of positivity and lightheartedness where they can unwind and be themselves in. They are often motivated to present themselves as witty, jovial and animated for the sake of getting positive reactions out of people. It does not matter to ILEs whether they are personally familiar with their audience or not, if they can entertain people and cheer them up, that is enough for them. However, ILEs lack the ability to regulate this themselves. They can troll and poke fun at people in a nonserious way, not paying attention to whether what they said was tasteless or obscene. When made aware of this though, they might feel hurt in response to this criticism and present a calm friendliness instead. To avoid making mistakes in this area, ILEs will pay closer attention to the emotional reactions of others and modify their behavior to avoid upsetting people.

## Ni-7

Limiting perspectives is the anathema to the ILE's exploratory nature. ILEs find focusing on the same set of subjects for too long as limiting their ability to think creatively and will want to move onto something that is more interesting. Furthermore, ILEs reject negative predictions as, in their view, dismissing the potential of their ideas. This type seldom delves into a state of reflection about the future ahead of them, feeling constrained by sticking to only one path in life. To counteract this issue, ILEs are motivated to find a lifestyle that will allow them to pursue their peculiar hobbies with ease.

## Te-8

ILEs actively apply their logic to a wide range of sources, filtering out what seems to be inconsistent and accepting what remains as self-evident. They can make illustrative observations from everywhere, accumulating and remembering a lot of factual data as a result. Despite this, ILEs are not so much interested in applying what they know in real life as they are refining and structuring their perspectives on different topics. For this reason, ILEs can end up annoying people by talking and debating endlessly with people about a variety of useless things. Similarly, in support of their theories, they might select only cite fragments of sources, or otherwise not cite any sources or examples at all, making the argument from pure reason. In this sense, ILEs are not so much experimentalists as they are theorists and hypothesis-builders. The evidence and observations that they gather are intended to substantiate and validate their theories, rather than constructing a hypothesis based on what they have observed.



